why b2b marketing should be all about
your customer hey i'm sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and host the top 100 marketing podcast
business growth show and today we're
jumping into an episode i was on
recently with kashel kakar where she
interviewed me for wingman's podcast on
the flip side we talk all about the best
channels for growth when it comes to b2b
we talk about why ceos need to align
with sales and marketing we talk about
how sales and marketing can work
together
from my own experiences and companies
experiences and the kind of friction
that can happen when sales and marketing
perhaps have different ideas and how
they can push forward to make sure
the goals are focused on driving revenue
and with that let's jump into the
episode
hi folks welcome to another smashing
episode of on the flip side with wengman
i'm kashal and today's episode is going
to be all about growth sales and
marketing because our guest for today is
sam dani sam sales director and co-owner
of webchoice which builds websites and
seo strategies for you and sam is also
the podcast host of the business code
show which is among the top 100
marketing podcasts wow that's quite an
achievement welcome to the show sam
excited to have you here
hey coachelle yeah i really appreciate
you inviting me on and looking forward
to having a chat today
great let's just dive right in um so i
think we live in really interesting and
sort of really changing times right um
with really a lot of newer platforms for
growth such as linkedin or reddit
or really so many amazing sales and
marketing groups as well and so much the
world now lives works and really sells
online as well and remotely too um how
do you think this has changed the way
that we sell and market and really what
you think are some of the most promising
channels for growth now for companies or
do you think it's still business as
basics
yeah i mean things have changed
massively of course with the pandemic
and a lot of a lot of ways things have
gone digitally from traditional methods
so
in terms of channel performance are we
talking about b2b company as opposed to
b2c typically
yeah i think we could focus on b2b
companies good stuff so
yeah i mean there's i could go on and on
about channels but um i guess let's keep
it a bit more general so this can be a
bit more actionable for companies across
different b2b sectors whether they're
providing software or a service or a sas
company whatever they may be um
so yeah i mean when it comes to b2b for
for myself there's always one that's a
no-brainer which is going to be linked
in
reason being is it's free to sign up the
chances are if you're in b2b sales then
or marketing you're ideal customers most
of the time are using it because it's
the biggest network that's online um but
why is it good well it's good because
you can literally connect with your
ideal buyers whether they're sales
directors marketing directors header
marketing whatever their job title may
but more important than that
what i like to use it for is to
kind of showcase i guess expertise in my
niche so in my case it's kind of
websites and seo digital marketing so
each day i can share posts around my
sector but not just to sell my wares
mortar i guess
show that i know what i'm talking about
so in my case i'll try and provide kind
of actionable tips or a recent story or
a recent case study or
what i feel is wrong with the industry
um and it doesn't matter what sector
you're in it's a really good day it's a
really good way sorry to put out a daily
or buy daily post of just to share that
you kind of have expertise in what
you're talking about you provide people
with useful tips so over time you're
building credibility
and you're building some kind of
authority
and on the basis that on linkedin that
your profile page acts as kind of a
landing page so again that you don't
think of it as an online cv but you
build out your landing page to actually
hook leads provide some social proof so
provide some trust some reviews some
ideas in which people can
kind of learn from you or how you help
them
and it's a really good way to kind of
build trust connect with idle buyers
gain referrals and gain inbound leads so
that would probably be definitely my
first recommendation because it's free
to get going doesn't take that much time
each day and there's so many
opportunities and like for us it's our
third best performing channel for new
business so that would definitely be my
number one
but the list could definitely go on
got it um do you think linkedin is you
know as a platform is right for everyone
um how much you know and how do
companies really decide how much to lean
into linkedin
especially yeah
i think
it's not for everyone i think you need
to actually go on to it and understand
if your customers are actually hanging
out on there
so for example i think in most tech
industries the chances are your
prospects are going to be on there
however if you're in a much more
traditional industry let's say i don't
know agriculture or something like that
and you're selling perhaps to farmers
they're probably not going to be hanging
out on linkedin um whereas you've got to
be realistic and i mean the other good
thing that you can do with linkedin is
you can actually go on to your
prospects linkedin page and then you can
see if they've got any recent activity
and if you're constantly going on to
your buyers page and you can't see any
recent activity from them in the last 90
days then that should let you know that
linkedin's probably not the best way to
reach out to them you probably want to
consider other channels whether that's
the phone email ad advertisements
whatever it may be
so that's that's what i'd say but yeah
if you're in any kind of tech industry
then the chances are they will be
um but it's easy to just use the search
tool and
get diving into it
that makes sense that makes world sense
um so this question is really an aside
um i've seen a lot of people complaining
about how linkedin has become like
facebook or instagram or one of those
sort of personal update platforms what
do you think about this
yeah yeah yeah um so i don't think it's
necessarily too bad but i think there's
a bit of a line that you need to
stick to it depends what you're on
linkedin for right so
i'm not hesitant to say that i'm on
linkedin i guess for selfish reasons
because i actually want to generate
sales leads as do many people on there
whereas some people are just on there
for fun or perhaps they're just on there
to network or gain referrals
or a number of other reasons
so
i tend to
stick by kind of an 80 20 rule so 80 of
the time up or probably more than that
probably eighty percent of the time
night at the time i just post kind of
actual tips insights case studies around
what we do to build authority in my
sector um and then five ten percent of
the time i might post on the weekend
like a picture of the family or a
picture of our little one or we've gone
on a trip somewhere or we've done
something interesting
because think of it as
from your prospect side really if you
were just constantly posting pictures of
your food your dinner
your nights out whatever whatever it may
be personally is that really gonna help
a prospect gain trust that you can do a
good job for whatever your service your
product is
whereas if they're only ever seeing
personal pictures so you've got to kind
of think of it what do you actually want
to get out of the platform and then
reverse it from there really so it
sounds like um
so it sounds like maybe thinking of
building trust as the litmus test for
what you're posting for instance if
that's your goal that seems like a good
way to kind of filter or decide to
filter content for linkedin or really
any other platform too
yeah exactly um
because
people are typically not just linkedin
but any kind of social media they're
perhaps hanging on out hanging out on it
when they've got five minutes spare or
at lunch time or in the mornings when
having a tea or coffee or in the evening
when they're chilling out so they're
just scrolling through the feed so they
don't necessarily want to be salty right
swearas they want to be typically
educated
entertained or helped in some way so if
you think of it on those three basis so
if your content can do one or three of
those things or all of those things then
it's it's gonna help you out rather than
just doing a hard sell if you can
showcase that you're providing something
useful or maybe an entertaining video
around your sector or something helpful
some kind of tip or case study whatever
it may be
then over time that builds compound
interest
so
i often compare linkedin to seo search
engine optimization so seo is a great
long term way to get your website to
page one of google
it's not quick so it takes time
typically kind of four six months plus
but
over time that'll bring web traffic
that'll build brand and that'll bring
more sales opportunity away linkedin is
much the same you've got to kind of put
in the daily work create the daily
content over time the more people see
your face see your content and they'll
start to build that trust and eventually
if they do need your help or if they
know someone that needs your help then
they'll get in touch with you or refer
someone your way
so it's yeah it's a long term game
really
yeah it seems like it's more long term
than release spray and paint and hope
for the best and at the end
yeah exactly i mean on on the note of
kind of what are the go-to market
channels for b2b company then
linkedin's kind of a no-brainer if you
want short-term
traffic sales depending on what budget
you've got and if you're a startup or an
established company then you probably
want to
look at things like getting a solid
website so i mean having a website i
always say it's your very best sales
person or it could be your worst sales
person because if it's poorly designed
yeah hopefully not but a lot of them are
um i mean if you've got a poorly
designed website that's kind of built on
your own ego on what you think looks
good rather than designed for your ideal
customers
then that's that's a flaw so thinking
about a website that clearly
demonstrates what you do how you help
people and make it really easy to for
people to get in touch with you is so
important
and then combining that with some kind
of marketing strategy whether that's
linkedin it's a kind of medium term game
whether that's looking at paid ads or
sponsored ads depending on what again
where your customers are that might be
google ads that might be g2 if you're in
the sas industry it might be social
media ads like facebook or insta again
work out where your customers are so
paid ads are a great way to get short
term traffic to your site and then
convert them into sales ops well long
term then yeah looking at things like
seo search and optimization to get
organic free traffic over time
and
things like we're doing now having a
podcast
something i posted about earlier podcast
is a great way really really cheap way
to interview ideal customers to
build authority in your sector much like
linkedin and it's really cheap because
it only costs
150 pounds for a decent mic and then you
can use channels like anchor for free to
set up a podcast so yeah there's a lot
of a lot of channels for b2b to get
stuck into some free some paid
some might take your own time investment
some type might take monetary investment
so happy to dive into any of those
deeper if you'd like
okay um what i'm hoping we can do is
kind of switch lanes a little bit and
talk more about sales and marketing
alignment and especially because you
know you're someone who's kind of
struggled both sales and marketing and i
guess you continue to kind of understand
both those roles deeply and closely as
well what do you think ceos and founders
of really smaller companies or smaller
businesses at startup should really keep
in mind when they're just setting out um
their sales and marketing functions just
to ensure that the two really work in
alignment
yeah
it's a great question it's not an easy
one um
so i guess it depends on the size of
your company right
because personally
i would always hire sales first
because without revenue coming in you
don't have a business
so i think that's really important
and
yeah i mean getting them aligned is is a
tough question so again it all depends
on the size your company how many staff
you can hire first um
what i think is important is if you are
a founder of a company then you learn to
sell your product
is so important because as a founder you
might be more technically minded so you
might be really good at talking about
the product itself the specifications of
the product you might know all the ins
and outs how to get it rolling how to
overcome issues but you might not be
great at striking up conversations with
prospects
so
whether that is your own personal
development listening to podcasts
reading books getting sales training
whatever you just the art of listening
understanding your prospects common
problems common frustrations common pain
points is so important so you can have
really insightful conversations
um and take people through the sales
process from kind of initial pain to
discovery to
moving them along the proposal demo
pitch and then eventually closing them
is so key and then kind of making your
first sales hires will then come a lot
more naturally if you're trained up in
it yourself
and then on a marketing standpoint i've
i've got a problem with a lot of
marketers because i think they're
terrible um mainly because i've talked
i've spoken to a lot of them and i feel
like a lot of salespeople spend a lot
more time on their personal development
than marketers do
so
a lot of salespeople
yeah i'm not afraid to say it because a
lot of salespeople will work hard and
they'll yes they've got bonuses but
they'll do it because they they'll read
they'll spend time on listening podcasts
again all these things that i've spoken
to
they'll refine and make themselves
better whereas a lot i'm shocked at how
many marketers don't do the same thing
um
why do you think that is though
i don't know i think it's maybe it's
because companies hiring processors are
quite lazy and they just think anyone
can do a kind of marketing exact
marketing manager job i'm not saying all
do but i'm saying from personal
experience i've seen sales reps put a
lot more time in their personal
investment um
so yeah i'd love for people to prove me
wrong but going back to your
point how can marketing and sales be
more aligned well i think they can talk
to each other more um
so a lot of kind of sales copy whether
that's content on your website content
on your ads
your blog posts your videos whatever um
one of the best
ways to get crispy juicy um problem
frustration orientated copy is to listen
to conversations with your sales team
so if marketers could kind of listen in
on their sales schools have more
conversation with themselves the sales
team are in the front and center of the
customers right they're talking to the
fresh leads or they're making the cold
calls so they know what the common
problems that people come to your
business with to address are and they
know what the desired end outcome is
you can then take those common problems
to
entice your customers by using that on
your ad copy your website headlines your
landing page headlines etc
and likewise when you've
done a good job for a customer you can
use your the words from your own
customer's mouth on how you help them
the problem they came to you with the
results you brought to them for case
studies for social proof for videos for
testimonials um and all that good stuff
so just understand that your sales team
aren't the enemy that they're going to
provide you with the useful um content
that you need so then you can work
together to give them that those
brochures give them those white papers
give them those useful videos give them
those usual case studies so i hope
marketers don't take too much offense to
that but it's got to be said
and i'm a mock to myself so i can say it
so it sounds like the way really for
sales and marketing teams to work better
together is to maybe focus more on the
customer and maybe make that really the
core of their interactions and what
they're talking about as well
yeah don't don't rely on guesswork
really because your prospects your
customers are going to give you all the
intel you need um
it's like when i kind of alluded to
earlier a lot of companies
will kind of design their website to
stroke their ceo their marketing officer
or their own egos
when what's the point because it might
look great to you but it might be
useless to your target customer um just
because you think the site should be
green and it should be all about how
many awards you've won your customer
doesn't probably care about that what
they want to do is land on your site
straight away know that you can fix
their problem or you can make their life
better show proof perhaps social proof
of how you've done it case studies and
then guide them to
take action whether that's requested
demo whatever the next step may be or if
they're higher up in the sales process
and they're not ready to speak to sales
then perhaps they just want to see
useful resources and whether that's
videos case studies podcasts etc so
understanding what's important to your
customer not just what you want to put
out there
got it just curious do you recommend
that when folks are working on their
websites and they kind of test them once
they're done with one version and kind
of maybe go back to their icp to their
audience and get their thoughts on it is
that something that should become a part
of the process
definitely um so i mean you don't even
need to well you can do it after for
sure but whilst perhaps you're at the
early stages of designing talk to some
of your best customers that you enjoy
working with a profitable and a good
growth your company and then ask them
look when
selecting a vendor like ours what's most
important to you what do you really need
to see in a website like ours and they
might say like we really want to see
case studies on xyz or we want to
understand more about your team or we
want to see certain testimonials and
they're going to give you golden nuggets
of useful information that customers
like that actually want to see on your
website so you don't have to rely so
much on guesswork
and so that's probably what i'd
recommend like for example
we recently changed our contact page and
our thank you page and we put together a
few options then we just showed a bunch
of customers and prospects and said look
which is best which do you prefer and
why
um so that way you're just not guessing
what's going to work you can actually
just ask your customers
yeah it sounds like just house because
always ever clean advice that always
works
yeah exactly
unless you're a brand new company then
you might have to kind of talk to your
network you might have to talk to
prospects rather than existing customers
but
it's always better to do that and then
iterate
after great sam um i think that kind of
brings me to one of my last questions on
the show which is really what is the
number one impact that you want to drive
on the world and this is always my
favorite question to ask
well that's a big
question never really thought about that
um
i suppose i mean that that's that's a
really really good question i suppose my
perspective on this has changed a bit i
suppose
from a business side of things
i suppose if we're talking purely
business then
i want to provide kind of no bs
advice whether that's on your website
and your seo to actually kind of help
you generate more sales opportunities
and
just want to kind of shed
decent advice on that front based on
experience whereas if it comes to my
personal life then we've we've recently
had a son so we've got a 13 year old son
just want to make sure we
give him the the best life possible make
sure i try and teach him from my
mistakes and
hopefully he does great and has a great
and prosperous life so that's that's
that's about it for me
that sounds don't sound like good goals
to go with
cool
great
thanks so much sam um i think it's
really been a pleasure to kind of have
you on the show and i think we've
learned a lot um from this really quick
chat with you as well thank you so much
for getting on the flip side
no i appreciate it thanks very much for
having me on